In this concept, we will learn about inheritance in Solidity.
Now, Solidity supports abstract classes.
It also supports multiple inheritance.
Contracts can inherit from multiple contracts.
When a contract inherits from multiple contracts,
only a single contract is created on the block chain.
This is the last contract in the Solidity file.
The code from all the baseContracts is copied to the derived contract.
Solidity also has the concept of interfaces.
Interfaces are created using the keyword interface.
Interfaces cannot have any variable declarations,
there can only be function declarations,
but no function body.
So the function getValue public returns bool,
the one that you see on the screen ends with a semicolon,
there is absolutely no function body.
It is the responsibility of the derived contracts to make sure
that all these functions are defined with a function body.
This is how in fact token standards are also implemented.
Token standards are like an interface.
If any contract, that once we adopt a token standard,
it needs to now implement these functions that are declared in the interface standard.
So we have token into places like ERC 20,
ERC 721, and of course, some more.
Now, let's look at the code on your screen.
In this example, you will find a contract named account,
and then we have a derived contract called credit
account that inherits from the contract account.
The way you inherit from an account,
you use the word is,
the keyword is contract,
so you say contract CreditAccount is Account.
In this case, the credit account will get deployed to
the network since it is a last contract in the file.
The baseContract does not need to be in the same file.
You can import contracts from other files or even online links or even from GitHub.
We can use import statements for this purpose like you see on the screen.
In this example, we are importing the file Account.sol from a local drive.
Now, let's look at a sample contract to understand inheritance better.
So, let's look at a sample contract that we have on this screen here.
So, we have a contract called mainContract,
nothing really happening in this contract too much,
so we have a variable that we're declaring of uint type it's internal,
and value is the name of the variable and then we have
a constructor function and then we have just two functions, deposit and withdraw.
So that's how you have a simple contract.
Now, we are going to import this contracts,
so the name of this file is main contract.
Now, let's go back to another contract which is inheritance contract.
We're importing this contract,
now we are in the same drive so the path is simple,
but you could import it from online or even from a GitHub page.
So, import this contract,
and now inside this contact we're actually creating another interface.
So, we have an interfaceContract that has a function, sendMoney,
but there is no function body.
So, if you look functions sendMoney,
it has input parameters,
external returns bool, that's it.
There's no function body,
no brackets, just a semicolon.
This is how you define interfaces.
There can be no variable declarations inside the interface,
just basic function values.
Now it is, of course,
the work or the load that comes upon
the inherited contracts that have to make sure that they implement these functions.
Now, let's look at another baseContract here.
This is a baseContract that has it's constructor,
deposit and also withdraw function.
So baseContract, we have
another constructor function and the deposit function right there.
So we have two contracts in this file so far,
interfaceContract and the baseContract.
Now, we have another contract that is showing multiple inheritance.
Remember, I said you can always inherit from multiple files or multiple contracts.
So now myContract, I'm actually getting it inheriting three different contracts.
So, baseContract, interfaceContract, and also the main contractor.
It's inheriting this interfaceContract,
it's inheriting this baseContract,
and the mainContract that was in a separate file because we've imported that file.
Now again, I wanted to mention,
if you see these numbers,
and the way we have to do this because we're inheriting it.
So, these contracts, how to construct a function,
we need to send the arguments,
if you don't send arguments right here,
our compiler will not let us deploy.
So, let me show an example.
So, if I delete this argument right there and I try to deploy this myContract now,
it's going to say it cannot do that.
So, if I say,
let's give it some input parameters and then if I deploy it,
it's going to give an error saying it does not implement all the functions,
all that means is that we cannot deploy,
we have to get past the arguments of
all the contracts that it's inheriting from right there.
So again, this shows multiple inheritance,
three different contract files,
two are in the same file,
one is coming from a different file.
One is an interfaceContract,
if you see my interfaceContract,
I have a function sendMoney,
now this has to be differently implemented since if it is unimplemented,
it's not going to let you deploy this contract.
It's going to say you can I deploy this contract because all the functions that
it's inheriting from the interfaceContract have to be present.
So, we are in fact defining this function,
the sendMoney, there was just,
if you see this function,
it gives you what it should look like,
but it's your responsibility to make sure that this function gets
implemented and defined in your derived contract.
So, you still have this function.
Again, a simple way you really don't have to focus on the code for now,
what it's doing, just a simple way to show how inheritance works in Solidity.
Let's go deploy it and see what it looks like.
So when you have this option,
it gives you a drop down option,
you can deploy mainContract, myContract interfaceContract.
Again, it's not going to let you deploy interface, let me show you that.
So, since interfaceContracts are just an interface,
there are no function bodies,
you cannot even deploy them.
So, if I say deploy,
it's going to not make you deploy it.
It's again saying that the contract does not
implement all the functions and thus can not be created,
so it's not going to let you deploy that contract.
Now let's deploy our baseContract.
Let's try deploying our baseContract right here.
So, if you see this contract is just a simple contract,
it's expecting an input value.
So, let me start with an initial value of a 100 and deploy this contract.
So, now we have two functions and of course,
the value because it's declared public,
and now if you get the value right now
it's going to be 100 because that's what we pass through a constructor function,
now let's deposit in another amount of 20.
Deposit, now the value is going to change to 120.
If I take out 50,
and then I withdraw,
now let's get the value,
it's going to be 70, so it's working fine.
So, now I'm going to delete this copy of this contract and deploy
the very last one that's inheriting from all these different three contracts.
So, let's deploy a myContract now.
So let's go back here,
go to on myContract and this is expecting.
We're already passing our arguments for these contracts right here but of course,
it expects this also has it's own constructor function expecting a string,
name of the contract, and I'm going to just call it Udacity.
Well, let's deploy this contract right there.
All the functions, so deposit, sendMoney.
So if you see these functions and not a defined on myContract,
but since I'm inheriting it,
all these functions end up in a list of
these functions because that is how inheritance works.
So, you can deposit,
you can withdraw, you can get the contract name,
you can getValue, and if they were set to 100,
all these functions work, and perfect.
This is how inheritance works,
I definitely want you to get these two files from our GitHub page,
play around and see how comfortable you get with inheritance in Solidity.